[[support-information]]
== Support Information

All support for this design is through the BeagleBoard.org community at:

_beagleboard@googlegroups.com_ or

http://beagleboard.org/discuss[_http://beagleboard.org/discuss_] .

[[hardware-design]]
=== Hardware Design

Design documentation can be found on the eMMC of the board under the
documents/hardware directory when connected using the USB cable.
Provided there is:

* Schematic in PDF
* Schematic in OrCAD (Cadence Design Entry CIS 16.3)
* PCB Gerber
* PCB Layout (Allegro)
* Bill of Material
* System Reference Manual (This document).

This directory is not always kept up to date in every SW release due to
the frequency of changes of the SW. The best solution is to download the
files from
https://beagleboard.org/latest-images[_beagleboard.org/latest-images_]

We do not track SW revision of what is in the eMMC. SW is tracked
separately from the HW due to the frequency of changes which would
require massive relabeling of boards due to the frequent SW changes. You
should always use the latest SW revision.

To see what SW revision is loaded into the eMMC follow the instructions
at
http://elinux.org/Beagleboard:Updating_The_Software#Checking_The_Angstrom_Image_Version[_http://elinux.org/Beagleboard:Updating_The_Software#Checking_The_Angstrom_Image_Version_]

[[software-updates]]
=== Software Updates

It is a good idea to always use the latest software. Instructions for
how to update your software to the latest version can be found at:

http://elinux.org/BeagleBoneBlack#Updating_the_eMMC_Software[_http://elinux.org/BeagleBoneBlack#Updating_the_eMMC_S
oftware_]

[[rma-support]]
=== RMA Support

If you feel your board is defective or has issues, request an RMA by
filling out the form at
http://beagleboard.org/support/rma[_http://beagleboard.org/support/rma_]
. You will need the serial number and revision of the board. The serial
numbers and revisions keep moving. Different boards can have different
locations depending on when they were made. The following figures show
the three locations of the serial and revision number.

[[figure-76,Figure 76]]
.Figure 76. Initial Serial Number and Revision Locations
image:media/image93.jpg[media/image93.jpg,title="media/image93.jpg",width=518,height=308]


[[figure-77,Figure 77]]
.Figure 77. Second Phase Serial Number and Revision Location
image:media/image94.jpg[media/image94.jpg,title="media/image94.jpg",width=518,height=230]

.Figure 78. Third Phase Serial Number and Revision Location
image:media/image95.jpg[media/image95.jpg,title="media/image95.jpg",width=575,height=222]


[[trouble-shooting-hdmi-issues]]
=== Trouble Shooting HDMI Issues

Many people are having issues with getting HDMI to work on their
TV/Display. Unfortunately, we do not have the resources to buy all the
TVs and Monitors on the market today nor go to eBay and buy all of the
TVs and monitors made over the last five years to thoroughly test each
and every one. We are depending on community members to help us get
these tested and information provided on how to get them to work.

One would think that if it worked on a lot of different TVs and monitors
it would work on most if not all of them, assuming they meet the
specification. However, there are other issues that could also result in
these various TVs and monitors not working. The intent is that this page
will be useful in navigating some of these issues. As others also find
solutions, as long as we know about them, they will be added here as
well. For access to the most up to date troubleshooting capabilities, go
to the support wiki at
http://www.elinux.org/Beagleboard:BeagleBoneBlack_HDMI[_http://www.elinux.org/Beagleboard:BeagleBoneBlack_HDMI_]

The early release of the Software had some issues in the HDMI driver. Be
sure and use the latest SW to take advantage of the improvements.

http://www.elinux.org/Beagleboard:BeagleBoneBlack#Software_Resources[_http://www.elinux.org/Beagleboard:BeagleBoneBlack#Software_Resources_]

[[edid]]
==== EDID

EDID is the way the board requests information from the display and
determines all the resolutions that it can support. The driver on the
board will then look at these timings and find the highest resolution
that is compatible with the board and uses that resolution for the
display. For more information on EDID, you can take a look at
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Extended_display_identification_data[_http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Extended_display_identification_data_]

If the board is not able to read the EDID, for whatever reason, it does
not have this information. A few possible reasons for this are:

* Bad cable
* Cable not plugged in all the way on both ends
* Display not powered on. (It should still work powered off, but some
displays do not).

[[display-source-selection]]
==== DISPLAY SOURCE SELECTION

One easy thing to overlook is that you need to select the display source
that matches the port you are using on the TV. Some displays may auto
select, so you may need to disconnect the other inputs until you are
sure the display works with the board.

[[out-of-sequence]]
==== OUT OF SEQUENCE

Sometimes the display and the board can get confused. One way to prevent
this is after everything is cabled up and running, you can power cycle
the display, with the board still running. You can also try resetting
the board and let it reboot to resync with the TV.

[[overscan]]
==== OVERSCAN

Some displays use what is called overscan. This can be seen in TVs and
not so much on Monitors. It causes the image to be missing on the edges,
such that you cannot see them displayed. Some higher end displays allow
you to disable overscan.

Most TVs have a mode that allows you to adjust the image. These are
options like Normal, Wide, Zoom, or Fit. Normal seems to be the best
option as it does not chop of the edges. The other ones will crop of the
edges.

[[taking-a-nap]]
==== Taking a Nap

In some cases the board can come up in a power down/screen save mode. No
display will be present. This is due to the board believing that it is
asleep. To come out of this, you will need to hit the keyboard or move
the mouse.

Once working, the board will time out and go back to sleep again. This
can cause the display to go into a power down mode as well. You may need
to turn the display back on again. Sometimes, it may take a minute or so
for the display to catch up and show the image.

[[audio]]
==== AUDIO

Audio will only work on TV resolutions. This is due to the the way the
specification was written. Some displays have built in speakers and
others require external. Make sure you have a TV resolution and speakers
are connected if they are not built in. The SW should default to a TV
resolution giving audio support. The HDMI driver should default to the
highest audio supported resolution.

[[getting-help]]
==== Getting Help

If you need some up to date troubleshooting techniques, we have a Wiki
set up at
http://elinux.org/Beagleboard:BeagleBoneBlack_HDMI[_http://elinux.org/Beagleboard:BeagleBoneBlack_HDMI_]
