[[beaglebone-ai-64-high-level-specification]]
== BeagleBone AI-64 High Level Specification

This section provides the high level specification of the BeagleBone
AI-64.

[[block-diagram]]
=== Block Diagram

<<figure-19>> below is the high level block diagram of the BeagleBone
AI-64.

[[figure-19,Figure 19]]
.Figure 19. BeagleBone AI-64 Key Components
image:media/image30.jpg[media/image30.jpg,title="media/image30.jpg",width=512,height=454,align="center"]

[[processor]]
=== Processor

The revision A and later boards have moved to the TI J721E DRA829/TDA4VM/AM752x
device.

[[memory]]
=== Memory

Described in the following sections are the three memory devices found
on the board.

[[mb-ddr4l]]
==== 4GB LPDDR4

A single 512Gb x16 LPDDR4 4Gb memory device is used. The memory
used is is:

* Q3222PM1WDGTK

[[kb-eeprom]]
==== 4KB EEPROM

A single 4KB EEPROM is provided on I2C0 that holds the board
information. This information includes board name, serial number, and
revision information. This is the not the same as the one used on the
original BeagleBone. The device was changed for cost reduction reasons.
It has a test point to allow the device to be programmed and otherwise
to provide write protection when not grounded.

[[gb-embedded-mmc]]
==== 16GB Embedded MMC

A single 16GB embedded MMC (eMMC) device is on the board. The device
connects to the MMC1 port of the processor, allowing for 8bit wide
access. Default boot mode for the board will be MMC1 with an option to
change it to MMC0, the SD card slot, for booting from the SD card as a
result of removing and reapplying the power to the board. Simply
pressing the reset button will not change the boot mode. MMC0 cannot be
used in 8Bit mode because the lower data pins are located on the pins
used by the Ethernet port. This does not interfere with SD card
operation but it does make it unsuitable for use as an eMMC port if the
8 bit feature is needed.

[[microsd-connector]]
==== MicroSD Connector

The board is equipped with a single microSD connector to act as the
secondary boot source for the board and, if selected as such, can be the
primary boot source. The connector will support larger capacity microSD
cards. The microSD card is not provided with the board. Booting from
MMC0 will be used to flash the eMMC in the production environment or can
be used by the user to update the SW as needed.

[[boot-modes]]
==== Boot Modes

As mentioned earlier, there are two boot modes:

* **eMMC Boot…**This is the default boot mode and will allow for the
fastest boot time and will enable the board to boot out of the box using
the pre-flashed OS image without having to purchase an microSD card or
an microSD card writer.
* **SD Boot…**This mode will boot from the microSD slot. This mode can
be used to override what is on the eMMC device and can be used to
program the eMMC when used in the manufacturing process or for field
updates.


_Software to support USB and serial boot modes is not provided by
beagleboard.org._ _Please contact TI for support of this feature._

A switch is provided to allow switching between the modes.

* Holding the boot switch down during a removal and reapplication of
power without a microSD card inserted will force the boot source to be
the USB port and if nothing is detected on the USB client port, it will
go to the serial port for download.
* Without holding the switch, the board will boot try to boot from the
eMMC. If it is empty, then it will try booting from the microSD slot,
followed by the serial port, and then the USB port.
* If you hold the boot switch down during the removal and reapplication
of power to the board, and you have a microSD card inserted with a
bootable image, the board will boot from the microSD card.

_NOTE: Pressing the RESET button on the board will NOT result in a
change of the_ _boot mode. You MUST remove power and reapply power to
change the boot mode._ _The boot pins are sampled during power on reset
from the PMIC to the processor._ _The reset button on the board is a
warm reset only and will not force a boot mode_ _change._

[[power-management]]
=== Power Management

The *TPS659411 and TPS659413* power management device is used along with a separate
LDO to provide power to the system. The**TPS659411 and TPS659413** version provides
for the proper voltages required for the LPDDR4. This is the same device
as used on the original BeagleBone with the exception of the power rail
configuration settings which will be changed in the internal EEPROM to
the *TPS659411 and TPS659413* to support the new voltages.

LPDDR4 requires 1.5V instead of 1.8V on the DDR2 as is the case on the
original BeagleBone. The 1.8V regulator setting has been changed to 1.5V
for the LPDDR4. The LDO3 3.3V rail has been changed to 1.8V to support
those rails on the processor. LDO4 is still 3.3V for the 3.3V rails on
the processor. An external *LDOTLV70233* provides the 3.3V rail for the
rest of the board.

[[pc-usb-interface]]
=== PC USB Interface

The board has a miniUSB connector that connects the USB0 port to the
processor. This is the same connector as used on the original
BeagleBone.

[[serial-debug-port]]
=== Serial Debug Port

Serial debug is provided via UART0 on the processor via a single 1x6 pin
header. In order to use the interface a USB to TTL adapter will be
required. The header is compatible with the one provided by FTDI and can
be purchased for about $$12 to $$20 from various sources. Signals
supported are TX and RX. None of the handshake signals are supported.

[[usb1-host-port]]
=== USB1 Host Port

On the board is a single USB Type A female connector with full LS/FS/HS
Host support that connects to USB1 on the processor. The port can
provide power on/off control and up to 500mA of current at 5V. Under USB
power, the board will not be able to supply the full 500mA, but should
be sufficient to supply enough current for a lower power USB device
supplying power between 50 to 100mA.

You can use a wireless keyboard/mouse configuration or you can add a HUB
for standard keyboard and mouse interfacing.

[[power-sources]]
=== Power Sources

The board can be powered from two different sources:

* A USB port on a PC
* A 5VDC 3A power supply plugged into the DC connector.
* A power supply with a USB C connec

The USB cable is shipped with each board. This port is limited to 500mA
by the Power Management IC. It is possible to change the settings in the
*TPS659411 and TPS659413* to increase this current, but only after the initial boot.
And, at that point the PC most likely will complain, but you can also
use a dual connector USB cable to the PC to get to 1A.

The power supply is not provided with the board but can be easily
obtained from numerous sources. A 1A supply is sufficient to power the
board, but if there is a cape plugged into the board or you have a power
hungry device or hub plugged into the host port, then more current may
needed from the DC supply.

Power routed to the board via the expansion header could be provided
from power derived on a cape. The DC supply should be well regulated and
5V +/-.25V.

[[reset-button]]
=== Reset Button

When pressed and released, causes a reset of the board. The reset button
used on the BeagleBone AI-64 is a little larger than the one used on the
original BeagleBone. It has also been moved out to the edge of the board
so that it is more accessible.

[[power-button]]
=== Power Button

A power button is provided near the reset button close to the Ethernet
connector. This button takes advantage of the input to the PMIC for
power down features. While a lot of capes have a button, it was decided
to add this feature to the board to ensure everyone had access to some
new features. These features include:

* Interrupt is sent to the processor to facilitate an orderly shutdown
to save files and to un-mount drives.
* Provides ability to let processor put board into a sleep mode to save
power.
* Can alert processor to wake up from sleep mode and restore state
before sleep was entered.

If you hold the button down longer than 8 seconds, the board will power
off if you release the button when the power LED turns off. If you
continue to hold it, the board will power back up completing a power
cycle.

_We recommend that you use this method to power down the board. It will
also help prevent contamination of the SD card or the eMMC._

If you do not remove the power jack, you can press the button again and
the board will power up.

[[indicators]]
=== Indicators

There are a total of five blue LEDs on the board.

* One blue power LED indicates that power is applied and the power
management IC is up. If this LED flashes when applying power, it means
that an excess current flow was detected and the PMIC has shut down.
* Four blue LEDs that can be controlled via the SW by setting GPIO pins.

In addition, there are two LEDs on the RJ45 to provide Ethernet status
indication. One is yellow (100M Link up if on) and the other is green
(Indicating traffic when flashing).


[[DP-interface]]
=== DP Interface

A single uDP interface is connected to the 16 bit LCD interface on the
processor. 
[[cape-board-support]]
=== Cape Board Support

The BeagleBone AI-64 has the ability to accept up to four expansion
boards or capes that can be stacked onto the expansion headers. The word
cape comes from the shape of the board as it is fitted around the
Ethernet connector on the main board. This notch acts as a key to ensure
proper orientation of the cape.

The majority of capes designed for the original BeagleBone will work on
the BeagleBone AI-64. The two main expansion headers will be populated
on the board. There are a few exceptions where certain capabilities may
not be present or are limited to the BeagleBone AI-64. These include:

* GPMC bus may NOT be available due to the use of those signals by the
eMMC. If the eMMC is used for booting only and the file system is on the
microSD card, then these signals could be used.
* Another option is to use the microSD or serial boot modes and not use
the eMMC.
* The power expansion header is not on the BeagleBone AI-64 so those
functions are not supported.

For more information on cape support refer to <<section-9>>.
